1. Playing Levels

To play custom levels, select 'Play Levels' from the main menu. This will open a window, which will
let you select a level. The default path is 'AppData/Local/RaymanReDesigner', but you can load levels from anywhere.
Each level has a set amount of Cages, Gifts and Magician Tokens. Can you get them all?

2. Creating Levels

To create custom levels, select 'Make Levels' from the main menu. This will prompt you to either start fresh
or load a pre-existing level to edit.

You can move around in the editor in multiple ways:
-Pan with MMB or WASD
-Zoom with the Mouse Wheel while pressing LCTRL
-Scroll the camera vertically with the wheel, or horizontally while pressing LSHIFT

The editor has 4 tabs in total, from left to right: 'Properties', 'Collision Types', 'Tiles', 'Objects'.

The 'Properties' tab contains general information about your level, including tools to change between sections, testing your 
level, and saving and editing the general editor settings.

The 'Collision Types' tab allows you to add and edit collisions.
Select a type from the list or the level with LMB and paint with RMB.

The 'Tiles' tab allows you to edit the tiles in your levels. Clicking the 'Show Template' button will take you to the
template. Select tiles from the template or the level with LMB and paint with RMB.
Each section has 8 tile layers in total. You can change the tileset of a layer by clicking the grid -button.
Layer 2 will appear on top of layer 1, layer 3 on top of layer 2, and so on.

The 'Objects' tab allows you to add, delete and modify the objects in your level. All the objects are divided into categories
and subpages. You can scroll through these with the arrow buttons. Select an object from the list and add it with RMB.
Once you have placed your object, clicking it with LMB will open its properties on the bottom left. What properties
you can edit depend on the object itself.
The most important of these properties is the 'Gen/Kill ID', which almost every object has. It is the ID which determines if an object will appear or disappear when the player interacts with a gendoor or 
a killdoor.

Hey buddy, as a special reward for actually reading the readme, press home in the editor and enter this code and gain access to
some special objects: 'rdmrt'

3. Custom Assets

You can add custom music, custom backgrounds and other custom graphics to your levels from the Background and Music Selection menus, or with the custom graphic object.
Place all of your custom files to the Custom folder next to the exe. Music files need to be in ogg-format.
Clicking the 'Custom Background' and 'Custom Music Track' fields will open a window which lets you to select the files.
The custom graphic object allows you to display any external images, as long as they are in .png format.
Subfolders can be used for custom assets. As long as these folders are also inside the Custom parent folder.

If you share a level which uses custom assets you need to bundle those with your level.

CAUTION is required when using custom graphics. Since there is no limitation on how many or how big assets you can use, you could run into memory issues.
If you want to use custom graphics for custom tiles, it's adviced to use a single large image for the entire level layout instead of hundreds of small ones for each tile.

4. Hotkeys/Tricks

The editor contains a handful of hotkeys and other tricks which can help your workflow:

Q - Swap between the tile template and your level
R - Moves the Starting Position with the ID of 0 to the mouse
E - Toggless grid snapping for objects
G - Show/Hide the grid guides
P - Reset editor position
L - Toggle link visibility
, - Zoom out
. - Zoom in
CTRL+ENTER - Reset editor camera zoom
1, 2, 3 and 4 - Change editor tabs
O - Enter testmode
Q - Allows you to fly in testmode
T - Show debug objects

CTRL+C - Copy the selected object
CTRL+V - Paste selected tiles or the selected object
CTRL+Z - Undo
CTRL+Y - Redo
CTRL+S - Save

Arrow Keys - Move the selected object pixel by pixel
Arrow Keys while holding LCTRL - Change the width and height of the selected object
Add on numpad - Increase the Gen/Kill ID of the selected object
Substract on numpad - Decrease the Gen/Kill ID of the selected object
Multiply on numpad - Open the Gen/Kill ID prompt
F - Flip the selected object
DELETE - Delete the selected object

Quick Linking:
If you have selected an object, hold LCTRL and click another object to quickly link them together.
This can be useful if you need to change the ID of a large amount of objects.

2. Troubleshooting

Since ReDesigner reads and writes to the level files, some antiviruses might see this as a threat and block this action.
So, if something weird happens with saving/loading levels, try to mess around with your antivirus.

If you run into weird memory related crashes, try minimizing the use of custom graphic objects.
