Prime 2D (formerly "Metroid Prime 2D," or "MP2D") is a free game developed by by "Team SCU," a group of enthusiasts led by Andréas Söderberg, Guyaume Veilleux ("Metroid Zapper"), and Matthew Griffith ("Troid92"). The game is heavily inspired by Metroid Prime and aims to reimagine its world and gameplay elements in a 2D format.

A fully playable demo was released to critical acclaim on April 1st, 2021. It was initially thought to be an April Fools' joke, as the team had a yearly tradition of releasing fake demos, but it soon became apparent that this was a real demo, and over the weeks following was featured in publications such as Polygon, PC Gamer, VICE, and Kotaku, the latter of which called it "the coolest Metroid in over a decade."

According to the project's official FAQ, the latest Prime 2D demo took approximately 3.5 years to develop (beginning in 2017). Almost all of the game's assets (including graphics, music, sounds, and fonts) were created from scratch, and those that were not (a handful of sound effects) were used with permission from available sound databases. The game was built using the NetMission engine, a closed-source engine by Matthew "Troid92" Griffith that has been used to produce multiple games since 2006.

History
Prior to 2017, the project went through several incarnations, the first of which was started in 2004 by Kellan Stover ("MetroidHandler") on the Samus.co.uk fan forums, and was known then as "Metroid Prime 2D" (or "MP2D"). In 2006, a playable demo, programmed by DestroyerF in the "Game Maker" engine, was released that pieced together many of the team's assets into a short Tallon Overworld segment, and included a usable Scan Visor. The same engine was used to release a playable version of Frigate Orpheon (the opening sequence of Metroid Prime), which culminated in a boss encounter against the Parasite Queen and an escape sequence. This demo was featured in Retro Gamer #32 (December 2006) as well as Electronic Gaming Monthly (alongside several other fan projects, including Ocarina of Time 2D and Codename: Gordon), and saw its final release in January 2008.

In 2007, Samus.co.uk was taken offline. By 2009, MetroidHandler and DestroyerF had departed the MP2D project, and a small portion of the community had started over with a Super Metroid rom-hack (using SMILE). This met with resistance for several reasons, including the lack of the Scan Visor and difficulties rendering features in the older engine. There are no known releases of this incarnation of the project.

Throughout this period, Troid92 began formulating a new game engine, which would eventually be used to restart the project almost a decade later. In 2013, he released a tower defense game called "Defend Your Flaagra" as part of the Nintendo Community Fangame Convention (NCFC), and in 2018 he released Swing Swing Swing, a physics-based adventure game. A version of the engine was also used to produce the project's 15 Years of Prime trailer in November 2017, serving as the public announcement of the project's latest incarnation (now named "Prime 2D"), which was being developed entirely from scratch. A playable demo would not be released until April 2021.

The 2021 demo took players through segments of Tallon Overworld, the Artifact Temple, and Chozo Ruins, and featured a novel control scheme as well as numerous unlockable power-ups. The demo culminates in a boss sequence with the Hive Mecha, after which the player may continue to explore the world. The team left many secrets and easter eggs for dedicated players to discover, and a classic completion percent indicator at the end of the credits, resulting in a small-but-dedicated community of speed runners. This release also demonstrated the capabilities of the new engine, such as sophisticated audio, lighting, physics, and pixel rendering. The engine, along with the art assets themselves, led to largely glowing reviews from both news publications and the fan community.

Team SCU has stated that they plan to continue the game's development, but since they are doing this in their spare time, there is no estimate of when the next demo will be ready. Unfortunately, not too soon after the reveal of Metroid Dread, the project was canceled after Nintendo forced the team to shut it down, presumably to prevent Prime 2D from drawing attention away from Metroid Dread.